---
layout: post
real-post-title: 2016 – Demo, EP, and Split releases
featured-image: /mistforest1.jpg
featured-image-alt: mistforest1
image:
  path: /assets/images/mistforest1.jpg
  height: 100
  width: 100
categories: [music]
tags:  [lists, 2016]
excerpt: The best non-full-length releases of 2016
author: Athotep
---

**12\. Whoredom Rife – Whoredom Rife [EP]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=2622412279/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://whoredomrife.bandcamp.com/album/whoredom-rife">Whoredom Rife by Whoredom Rife</a></iframe>  
<br>
Norway has been less than stellar during the past years, as far as black metal is concerned, and 2016 was no exception. Thankfully there are a few dark twinkles in this sea of mediocrity, as is this EP from Trondheim, which mixes furious majesty with triumphant darkness. Here be hints of early Enslaved mixed with a more down-to-earth approach reminiscent of the turn of the millennium (Tsjuder for instance).  
<br>

**11\. True Love – To Pray For Perpetual Violence [demo]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=2800258756/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://truelovebm.bandcamp.com/album/to-pray-for-perpetual-violence">To Pray For Perpetual Violence by True Love</a></iframe>  
<br>
The raw black metal demo of the year could well ride into this list on grace of its amazingly malicious cover alone. The fact that it is also well-versed in the black arts of insectoid-like articulated guitars riffs as well as in that of double-echo vocals and thrashy pauses is only adding points to it, as do both the group name and the release’s title. LunaticsaguinemSatanworship.  
<br>

**10\. Draug – In Glorification Of Dark Legions [demo]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=341352572/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://svartrit.bandcamp.com/album/in-glorification-of-dark-legions">In Glorification of Dark Legions by Draug</a></iframe>  
<br>
Ancient Record circles’ Sir N’s new project will not surprise those familiar with his other bands (which are not few). Maybe slightly more angular and warm, with an essence of interior spaces. As always, Sir N. knows how to build up traditional ’90s black metal atmosphere. One more worthy addition to Sweden’s amazing contemporary underground scene.  
<br>

**9. Kaffaljidhma – Ι & ΙΙ [demos]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=2499965279/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://kaffaljidhma.bandcamp.com/album/ii">II by Kaffaljidhma</a></iframe>  
<br>
The Dutch Kaffaljidhma’s first two demos (laconically named “I” & “I”) is an prime example of naturalistic image-crafting music. With hardly any riffs in the traditional sense of the word, they are ambiance floating upon the wanderer’s path, a path ravaged by snow and trees. They are a-temporal exercises in meditation, pure atmosphere distilled in two expressively named songs, one in each demo. Full review [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/music/2016/04/22/kaffaljidhma-i-ii.html){:.text-blue-600 .hover:text-blue-400}.  
<br>

**8. Duch Czerni – Reality of Black Spirits [demo]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=224630326/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://warproductions.bandcamp.com/album/wpt071">WPT071 by Duch Czerni</a></iframe>  
<br>
Subterranean, slithering ritualistic black metal from Poland, which crawls elegantly discharging spasms of incense on its chaotic path. Here lie parts of the spirit of Mortuary Drape and Necromantia (more like detached spectres gliding above the music, rather than being incorporated in the songwriting). An excellent specimen of how the Occult can be sculptured in a black metal release.  
<br>

**7\. Light of the Morning Star – Cemetery Glow [EP]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=35835678/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://lightofthemorningstar.bandcamp.com/album/cemetery-glow">Cemetery Glow by Light of the Morning Star</a></iframe>  
<br>
One cannot go wrong with a De Mysteriis-esque black/purple cover depicting a cemetery. This one-man band from UK is dominated by ominous gothic riffing (with slightly black metal hues) which is highly effective in the creation of a gloomy menacing atmosphere. Throw in the mix a vocal performance which draws upon the -wave monotony, and you have an unexpected dark gem – with a guitar blink at The Cure’s “Pornography” just before ending.  
<br>

**6\. Surtr – Nocturnal Mysticism [demo]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=4054582930/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://eternalfrostrecords.bandcamp.com/album/surtr-nocturnal-mysticism">Surtr / Nocturnal Mysticism by Eternal Frost Records</a></iframe>  
<br>
This US band appeared out of nowhere in late September, unleashing 3 demos in less than two weeks’ time, all three releases capturing excellently the forest-walking spirit of early Satyricon, and generally of the mid-’90s “traditional” Norwegian scene. All 3 demos are almost interchangeable as far as a place in this list is concerned, “Nocturnal Mysticism” just won me a bit more due to the unconventional beginning of its first track.  
<br>

**5\. Unbegotten – Proem of the Unborn [demo]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=3917709432/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://fpr666.bandcamp.com/album/unbegotten-proem-of-the-unborn">Unbegotten - Proem Of The Unborn by Forever Plagued Records</a></iframe>  
<br>
The veil of Archaic majesty – manifested through a sound that worships Les Legions Noires – covers this tape masterpiece coming from the Iberian Peninsula. Steeped in occult atmosphere, with surprisingly interesting vocals and grainy guitars that wander through catacombs, with amazing cover art, and a name that revels in its extravagance, this entity seems to have a highly promising future.  
<br>

**4\. Necromantic Worship – The Calling… [EP]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=258609571/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://nuclearwarnowproductions.bandcamp.com/album/the-calling">The Calling... by Necromantic Worship</a></iframe>  
<br>
Despite its quality, the Dutch masters’ second demo proved unfortunately to be their last one. Continuing on the Necromantia worship path that they set upon with 2015’s monumental “Spirit Of The Entrance Unto Death,” Necromantic Worship created with “The Calling…” another stellar rendering of the dungeon-ish ritualistic Evil sound of early Necromantia. Of cracking tombs and floating spheres.  
<br>

**3\. Cult of Fire – Life, Sex and Death [EP]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=3054052391/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://cultoffire.bandcamp.com/album/life-sex-and-death">Life, Sex and Death by Cult of Fire</a></iframe>  
<br>
The Czech trio returned with another killer EP, following on the tradition of the amazing “Čtvrtá symfonie ohně.“ With a deep sense of folk melody integrated throughout the riff structure of the four tracks, this release showcases the ascending progress of the band since its 2013 breakthrough (not forgetting last year’s Death Karma as well). Melodic, without compromise in its furious moments, and with a level of songwriting that is to be envied, “Life, Sex and Death” is a species of uttermost interest.  
<br>

**2\. Mystik – Af Herrens Mystik… (Kapitel I) & Dunkla klangor… (Kapitel II) [demos]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=1523905224/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://mysticismproductions.bandcamp.com/album/dunkla-klangor-kapitel-i">Dunkla Klangor... (Kapitel I) by Mystik</a></iframe>  
<br>
If Bekëth Nexëhmü is a name with which most are well-acquainted, Mystik is an entity that sprouted this year seemingly out of nowhere with two amazing compilations of unreleased demo recordings spanning six years (2009-2014). Their style is as ’90s as the label’s aura invokes, reminiscent of a more tense and densely articulated Bekëth Nexëhmü. Drawing upon the Scandinavian atmospheric legacy of such names as Ulver, Isvind, Kampfar and Setherial, among many others, the two Kapitels are artifacts of an underground scene that seems to be without equal.  
<br>

**1\. Bekëth Nexëhmü – De Dunklas Återkomst [demo]**  
<br>
<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=3067819826/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="http://mysticismproductions.bandcamp.com/album/de-dunklas-terkomst">De Dunklas Återkomst by Bekëth Nexëhmü</a></iframe>  
<br>
The obscure Swede masters of ’90s-esque atmospheric black metal unleashed two full-length-duration demos this year, remaining one of the best things (if not the single best) to come out of the Ancient Records’ womb. Steeped in the lo-fi nighttime elegance of a spectre wandering in a haunted forest, “De Dunklas Återkomst‘s” 40 minutes are an oasis of nocturnal snowy atmosphere, graced with a sound that is as thin as a ghost’s density.