---
layout: post
real-post-title: A mass of non-existent words, part 1
featured-image: cthl.jpg
featured-image-alt: cthl
image:
  path: /assets/images/cthl.jpg
  height: 200
  width: 200
categories: [misc]
tags:  [language]
excerpt: A collection of imaginary words
author: Athotep
---

I discovered this [non-existent word generator site](https://www.thisworddoesnotexist.com/){:.text-blue-600 .hover:text-blue-400}, and couldn't resist making up some imaginary words. Most of them are variations on words generated by the site, while the meanings of a few are inspired by generated meanings. I didn't go the etymological way in crafting most of the words, though this could be a future experiment.  
<br>

* **Arzal**: the time it takes to forget thinking about the breathing process, once you notice it. *I had a 10-minute arzal before lunch, where I seriously thought that I would never not think about my breathing again.*

* **Benisolia**: the good instances of the sun (sun in winter, sun after a stream of rainy days, etc), in contrast to **malisolia**. *I went out today, couldn't help it with such a benisolia.*

* **Cloa**: the space between a key and the sides of the keyhole, as well as the distance between an unfitted key and its keyhole. *Even though I had left the key in the keyhole, a singular ray of light passed through the cloa.*

* **Derosar**: a cluster of skin spots that make a pattern, a skin constellation. *Seven spots on my left arm form an Ursa Minor-like derosar.*

* **Flaccusum**: the act of passing your fingers on a keyboard’s (or piano's) keys without pressing them; also the sound generated by this act. *I can’t stop making flaccusums with my new keyboard, they sound so futuristic.*

* **Galoits**: the invisible flying beings one creates when breathing loudly after eating something very spicy. *After finishing the capsicums I had spawned a horde of galoits – you could almost feel them fluttering around.* 

* **Gezimuth**: the ridge of an **octolius**[see below]. *It is rumored that a gezimuth can cut a shadow in two.*

* **Jiinrei**: the trajectory of a fire's sparkles. *Jiinrenomancy is the art of divination through jiinrei.*

* **Kikara**: a gift given with the hope that it will be gifted back in some time, a thing essentially purchased for oneself, something frowned upon in most societies. *For his mother’s birthday he purchased a limited edition of his favorite book; kikada, if I’ve ever seen one!*

* **Laskelot**: the time between two events which involve the receiving of presents (for instance birthday and Christmas). *I have three equal-length Laskelots – four months from Christmas to birthday, four more from birthday to name day, and then four more to go to Christmas.*

* **Marshpec**: a fistful of swamp mud that is carried on one's person, rumored to be able to bring money and bliss. Also, the pocket that carries this mud. *He spent three nights in the bog, but apparently it was worth it – he came back with a large marshpec.*

* **Octolius**: a paper which has been folded in half eight times, a grotesque thing (see also **gezimuth**). *I saw his back after the accident, it was like an octolius.*

* **Raiscus**: a legendary animal with no internal organs; pure (muscle) flesh completely fills its interior. There are human cults that try (unsuccessfully up to now) to make their members into Raiscuses. *I hate thinking about all the things inside my torso, I wish I was a Raiscus.*

* **Sarulmite**: a fungal stone, a living mineral. Found in desert oases, it can change someone’s skin patterns (fingerprints, spots, tattoos) on touch. *The escaped prisoners who manage to reach the sarulmite oasis are as good as free.*

* **Scadoc**: urban airborne vegetation whose smell brings memories of the age of 25 (if the imbiber is younger than this, subtle memories of the future (when she will be 25) are revealed). Appears every 25 years. *I’ve heard that adolescents who smell scadoc and are bound to die before their 25s, can see beyond the grave.*

* **Scambly**: to resort to using anesthetic during ritual scarification. Used among the upper echelon members of corporate gangs. Deeply demeaning. *The boss scamblied on his first sigil – though you didn’t hear it from me!*

* **Sealtnur**: to elaborate on the taste of inedible materials. *During the last years of university I sealtnured endlessly on different kinds of furniture.*

* **Malisolia**: the bad instances of sun (hot noon summer sun, the sun that slips through your blinds and wakes you early, etc); the opposite of **benisolia**. *Mediterranean summer is the season of malisolia.*

* **Stalyclove**: the powdered tongue of an oral poet, used in rhetorical elixirs and binding spells. *In order for the stalyclove to be fully potent you have to cut the tongue while the poet is reciting – or so I have heard.*

* **Totlenop**: the feeling of remorse one feels after silently cursing strangers. *I was awoken by the sound of workers today of all days! The things I thought about them – I admit I had a small totlenop afterwards.*

* **Tucatrille**: to sing next to a fire sitting in such a way that your shadow's lips are visible and moving. **Tucatrillian** is the name of this particular shadow. *This fireplace casts the loveliest tucatrillians.*

* **Wilthrop**: a particular type of village, perched upon a steep mountaintop, where life revolves around the carrying of water from lower streams. *You know how strong my grandmother is – the effects of being raised in a wilthrop.*

* **Yult**: to impersonate a dead ancestor. *I found a chest full of my great grandfather’s clothes – I am going yulting in his old haunts tonight.*